---
layout: default
title: Why Sublevel?
---

[Sublevel](http://sublevel.net/) is to Twitter what Pinboard is to Delicious, Reddit to Digg, Linux to Windows, Android to iOS, etc.

Here are the project requirements for [Sublevel](http://sublevel.net/):

* No JavaScript. Sublevel works with JavaScript disabled.
* Dumb phones supported. Sublevel works with Opera Mini.
* Responsive design. Sublevel works on any devices with a modern browser from smartphones to TVs.
* Elegant design. Sublevel needs to feel better or as good as a native app.
* Powerful web app. Sublevel is using design hacks to improve performance.
* Different than Twitter. Sublevel is not a clone of Twitter like App.net neither trying to reinvent the wheel. There's no character limit, Sublevel is limited by design only.
* No user tracking. Sublevel doesn't store any metadata associated with users or replies.
* Discoverable. Sublevel is using an explore page to keep people informed. Similar to HN, DN or Reddit.
* Clear searching. Sublevel lets you independently search for replies or people's usernames, bios, locations.
* Just text. Sublevel won't provide support for images, videos, gifs, mp3s. Third-party services do a better job. Sublevel provides support for links, mentions and hashtags.
* Threaded conversations. Sublevel reply system is clear, there's no need for mentions. It lets you join in any conversation.
* Less spam. Sublevel prevents spam using two features. First, it lets the parent of a reply to delete any children replies. Second, it lets people send just one reply, expecting answers back from the other participants in the conversation.
* No API. Sublevel doesn't need an API, just better web browsers. Instead of an API, Sublevel will try to have an open database.
* Powered by mini ads. Sublevel is free and the ads will never be intrusive, actually they look quite good.

The idea behind Sublevel is to have a public network with no hidden tricks, gimmicks or any other crap like that.

Have some fun on [sublevel.net](http://sublevel.net/) :)
