---
layout: default
title: Juicy fruits in the mix
---

I know, I know… I shouldn't have started this article with such a catchy title. I should have gone with "Fruit Madness", "This is Sparta, Fruit" or maybe "Return of the Fruit". But making juice is like listening to the summer hit. I don't know what this summer hit is, but now I know how to make juice.

Back in February, I was watching a movie where one guy loved his blender more than anything. That was weird and I remember it! And then comes my love for juice, any juice, every juice, only juice. Mixing those two ideas was a natural way to start an addiction.

I'm a rookie when it comes to anything that involves kitchen. Things get better over time, I have to admit this too. My first attempt at making juice was a complete disaster. Two grapefruits  and a bit of cold water were smashed by the blender. The result was something closer to the worst lemonade you can buy from the cheapest restaurant than juice.

My recipe varies by the ingredients that I have. Although the basics are the same. So, here's a list of the things I recommend:

* Juicy grapefruits, the big red ones are great.
* Any other fruits that you like.
* All the fruits have to be peeled. Also, check for seeds.
* Honey, but don't use much. You can add sugar if you want it sweeter.
* Cold mineral water with or without lemon. Schweppes can be a life savior in this case.

Regarding the blender, any cheap blender from the local store will do the trick. It's more of a personal taste than anything. I don't recommend juicy extractors. You lose more than 50% of the content of the fruit by using them, even on citrus fruits.
